---
layout: post
title: Data Science Bootcamp
---

## Metis - Week 1  

I was super excited to start Metis this week! A data science education has been something I’ve wanted since 2006 when I first became interested in operations research and data analytics. 10 years later I am finally learning the techniques that will help me land a data science role at a forward-thinking company.

At Metis, I’m surrounded by some really smart and down-to-earth individuals. It’s fun to hear everyone’s stories and how they came to be at Metis to join the 4th San Francisco cohort. 

My instructors are fantastic so far. You can tell that they enjoy teaching and want to impart their wisdom on all of us data science newbies.

Every morning we embark on pair programming for one or two Python problems. At first, I found this to be a little bit difficult. I learned Python on my own this summer, working out problems in my mind silently for hours upon hours. So it was difficult for me to get over being shy and to speak my thoughts aloud (no matter how crazy they are!). However, you very quickly learn that two heads are better than one, and you will be able to solve a problem a lot quicker with two people working together. By the end of the week, I looked forward to the morning pair programming and learning from my partner. 

The theme of the first week was “exploratory data analysis” and to go along with this theme, we learned the following libraries:  
* Pandas - a Python library for manipulating and exploring data (aka “data munging”)  
* matplotlib - a Python 2D plotting library  
* Seaborn - a Python statistical visualization library built on top of matplotlib

We then used the above libraries to analyze data in teams of 4 students. Our task was to visually and verbally convince an organization of our choosing (real or imaginary) that our data analytics skills and insights are valuable for their business, using real NYC MTA turnstile data.  

Our chosen “client” was the MTA. Having lived in NYC for 7 years, I know the MTA can find significant value from its own data. I enjoyed working in my team and getting my hands on real freely accessible data. It was surprising to me that MTA turnstile data is available for anyone to analyze: [MTA Turnstile Data](http://web.mta.info/developers/turnstile.html)

One thing I’ve realized in this first week is that you could spend your entire life learning all there is to learn about even one subtopic under the umbrella of data science. It’s key to know where to find the information when you need it, rather than trying to memorize every little detail.