---
layout: post
title: Predictions in the Film Industry
---

##  Can we predict the number of US theaters in which a foreign language film will be released using regression? 

During the last 2 weeks, we focused on the following data science topics:  
* Web Scraping (publicly available data)  
* Linear Regression  
* Regularization   
* Train & Test  
* Probability  
* Bayes  
* Visualization with Matplotlib 

And we learned the following Python libraries:  
* NumPy - library for performing high-level mathematical functions on arrays and matrices   
* stats models - library for exploring data and performing statistical tests  
* scikit-learn - library for many machine learning techniques and data mining  
* Beautiful Soup - library for pulling data out of HTML and XML files  

Our task was to see if we could learn key insights about the movie industry using regression models. The question I posed to myself is whether I could predict the number of US theaters in which a foreign language film will be released using regression. What components of a film help predict the number of US theaters in which a foreign language film will be released? Is there a positive or negative relationship with each component and how strong is each relationship?  

Drumroll… this was definitely harder than I thought it would be!  The answer unfortunately is no. I cannot predict very well the number of US theaters in which a foreign language film will be released using regression - at least not with the features I selected to as inputs into my regression analyses (country of origin, MPAA rating, distributor, release month, and runtime). 

Historically, if a foreign language film is released at all in the US, the median number of US theaters in which a foreign language film is released is just 20. This blew me away. 20 theaters all across the country - that’s it!  

There are a few features that appear to be positively correlated with the number of US theaters in which a foreign film is released:   
* Country of origin: films from India  
* Distributors: Sony Classics, Eros, Music Box Films  
* Rating: R  
* Release Month: February, October, November, December  
* Runtime: the longer, the better!  

There are also a few features that appear to be negatively correlated with the number of US theaters in which a foreign film is released:  
* Country of origin: films from Japan  
* Distributors: Strand  
* Rating: Unrated  
* Release Month: March, April, May  

An article written in IndieWire [(IndieWire article)](http://www.indiewire.com/2014/05/the-lonely-subtitle-heres-why-u-s-audiences-are-abandoning-foreign-language-films-27051/) discussed the steep decline in US box office sales for foreign films between 2007 and 2013. Come on, America! It’s important to our education to see films from other countries and cultures.   

You can [see my presentation here.]({{Becca18,github.io}}/images/US Theaters - Foreign Films (RH).pdf)

