---
layout: post
title: Transformation Station — Written Reviews to Ratings
---

##  Can we predict restaurant ratings from written reviews?  
 
###  Topics Learned
During the last 2 weeks, we focused on Natural Language Processing:  
* Translating of text to vectors using the following: TFIDF, Count Vectorizer, LDA, LSI, NMF, Word2Vec

###  Google Places API: Unique Restaurant Reviews and Star Ratings  
Using Google Places API, I collected 15,000+ unique written restaurant reviews and corresponding star ratings for restaurants in San Francisco and the 5 most populous cities in the US: NYC, LA, Chicago, Houston, and Philly. 

###  Vector Space Models  
I translated the text reviews to vectors using every vector space model we learned (TFIDF, Count Vectorizer, LDA, LSI, NMF, Word2Vec). I then split the reviews and ratings into a training set and a test set. Each vector space model was used to train each classification model (KNN, multinomial NB, logistic regression, SVC, adaboost, random forest, decision tree, MLP) to find the optimal combination. The best combo was TFIDF and logistic regression. When tested on the test set, this combo achieved an accuracy score of 64%. 

###  Bucketing Ratings: Negative, Neutral, and Positive  
I then put 1 & 2 star ratings into a bucket together - the “negative” rating bucket; 3 star ratings in a “neutral” rating bucket; and 4 & 5 star ratings in a “positive” rating bucket together.  Again, the combo of using TFIDF and logistic regression was the best combination, with an accuracy score of 85%! The best part was showcasing the model in a Flask application that allows users to enter a written restaurant review and returns a predicted positive, neutral, or negative rating. It’s actually quite addictive to enter in a review and see what the app returns. One of my classmates was determined to find the words that would cause the app to spit out a very obviously wrong rating.

###  Real World Applications   
So how can this be used in the real world? For one, this would remove the need entirely for a reviewer to enter a rating along with their written review. It can also be used to normalize ratings by directly correlating the review text to a rating. Words will matter more than the two seconds it takes for someone to click a star rating! Imagine that.

###  Separating Reviews by Price Level  
I wanted to see if I could improve the accuracy score even further if I separated reviews by the price level of the restaurant. However, the accuracy score did not improve when training and testing on reviews of restaurants in the same price level. 

###  Restaurant Reviews: Most Used Words   
One last interesting analysis to mention: In the reviews that I captured, what were reviewers generally commenting on? I looked at the most used words over all the reviews. Well, “food” was the most used word overall. Fair enough. I’m glad “hair” or “insect” was not. What other words were popular? Can you guess? “Pizza.” “Chicken.” Yup, that’s the America I know and love. “Service”, “order”, “time”, and “staff” were also in the top 15 words used. Would you guess that “wine”, “cheese”, and “bread” are the most mentioned words in France’s restaurant reviews? 

You can [see my presentation here.]({{Becca18,github.io}}/images/NLP1.pdf)








