---
layout: post
title: Predictions in the Credit Card Industry
---

##  Can we predict whether you (or anyone) will default on their next credit card payment? 

During the last 2.5 weeks, we focused on the following data science and other computer science topics:  
* Classification models: K-Nearest Neighbors, Logistic Regression, Naive Bayes, Decision Trees, Random Forests, etc.  
* Interacting with databases using Structured Query Language (SQL)   
* Creating an interactive web application    
* Data visualization using D3 (a JavaScript library for visualizing data with HTML, SVG and CSS)  

Classification is used to identify which of a set of categories a new observation belongs. One needs to have a set of data in which category membership is known to test various classification models, and then one needs to wisely choose the optimal classification model in which to use to predict the categories of new observations.

I love testing out my own classification skills in the real world! I know that sounds funny, but I really enjoy learning about people and guessing their classification in a given category.  For example, a few weeks ago I met a classmate’s girlfriend. Within a few minutes of chatting with her, I could tell that she was smart and well-read. She had a tattoo, a short hair-cut, and seemed very open and definitely liberal. She told me she went to undergrad in Ohio. Without another second of thought, I asked, “Did you go to Oberlin?” She and her boyfriend looked at me in amazement. I was correct. I’m not ALWAYS right in computing classification in my brain of course, but I would say I’m correct more often than not with a few minutes of information about a person. At the very least, it’s always so fun to check out my classification abilities.

Our task was to find data that nicely fit into a classification problem. While I cannot say I was particularly passionate about the topic of this project, the data did nicely fit into a classification problem. We pretended that we were a consulting team for a credit card company and our task was to help the credit card company predict whether an individual cardholder would default (or not pay at least the minimum payment due) on their credit card next month. In this way, the credit card company could intervene ahead of time by reaching out to those people predicted to default and reduce the likelihood of that person defaulting.

It turns out that most people do not default. In other words, most people pay at least the required minimum payment (78% of people in our dataset). As such, the majority of the classification models also predicted that most people pay (and do not default). We therefore really wanted to find a model that could accurately predict the people that will default. But…we didn’t want a model that predicts that everyone will default. In other words, we wanted a model that had a high hit rate and captured the majority of the people who will truly default. And, we wanted a model that had high precision so that the people who are not going to truly default are not falsely predicted to default in our analysis. I guess you can say we wanted to have our cake and eat it too.  There was no model that gave us everything we wanted unfortunately, but the optimal model of all the models was the Random Forest Classifier.

We then put our models through a cost analysis, weighing the cost of intervening with customers that our model predicted would default but would NOT have truly defaulted  (e.g. “the losing a customer by annoying them cost”) versus the long-term gain of getting our accurately predicted default customers to pay. That model that optimally minimized cost with its predictions was the Random Forest Classifier!  

It might not be surprising that if an individual defaulted (paid less than the minimum payment due) in the previous 6 months, has a low limit balance, is not well-educated and single, the Random Forest Classifier model predicts that the person will default in the upcoming month. 


You can [see my presentation here.]({{Becca18,github.io}}/images/CreditCard.pdf)




